docs: Add reference documentation for `Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows` (#934)
PowerShell/DSC: docs/reference/resources/Microsoft/OpenSSH/SSHD/sshd_config/examples/manage-sshd-settings.md

---
description: >
  Example showing how to use Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/sshd_config to get and enforce specific SSH
  server configuration settings.
ms.date: 05/07/2026
ms.topic: reference
title: Manage SSH server configuration settings
---

# Manage SSH server configuration settings

This example demonstrates how to use the `Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/sshd_config` resource to check
and enforce secure SSH server configuration settings, such as disabling password-based
authentication.

> [!NOTE]

> > You should run this example in an elevated context (as Administrator on Windows, or as root on

Reviewer: one more spot
```suggestion
> You should run this example in an elevated context (as Administrator on Windows, or with `sudo` on
```

> on Linux) to ensure the SSH server configuration can be updated successfully.

## Get the current state of specific settings

The following snippet shows how to use the [dsc resource get][00] command to retrieve the current
values of specific `sshd_config` directives.

```powershell
$instance = @{
    passwordauthentication = 'no'
    permitrootlogin        = 'no'
} | ConvertTo-Json

> dsc resource get --resource Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/sshd_config --input $instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dsc resource export --resource Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/sshd_config --input $instance
```
use `export` here - `get` does not support filtering by keyword

Author: Fixed!
